# FAQs for G1

introductions...

## Announcement

...

## Developing

### Q1: In debugging mode, will the program still respond high level command?

No. The debugging mode will disable the motion control service. You must reboot the robot to restart the service.

### Q2: Is it possible to develop upper limb functionality while maintaining lower body motion control?

Sure. You can develop arms when using loco service to move.

### Q3: Can I use loco service in RL simulation(Isaac Gym)?

No. You can use low-level scripts. High-level scripts requires the close-source control program in PC1.

### Q4: After an upgrading, I cannot control the robot with high-level scripts.

If the ai sport service is >= 8.2.0.0, change the `LOCO_SERVICE_NAME` in `g1_loco_api.hpp` from "loco" to "sport".

### Q5: Got an `install DIRECTORY given not DESTINATION` issue when trying to build my example.

Include the GNUinstaller in Cmake configration.

### Q6: Can I develop wirelessly?

**Remote debugging is absolutely possible.** PC2 has a built-in WiFi module. Simply connect both PC2 and your local device to the same access point (AP), and you can access PC2 via SSH.

**Important Notes:**

1. The WiFi adapter and the internal network operate on **separate LANs**.
   * To establish a connection, you must use the **IP address assigned to PC2 by your AP**.
2. Running the SDK directly on your local machine **won’t work** because the internal DDS (Data Distribution Service) operates on the **internal switch’s LAN**.
   * For DDS debugging from your computer, you need to **bridge PC2’s WiFi adapter and Ethernet port**.
3. If you’re unsure how to configure this, request an **internal setup guide** from technical support.

### Q7: Can I broke the access to PC1?

Never think about that. Warning about losing your warranty.

### Q8: Can't install Unitree_SDK2_Python on PC2 after building CycloneDDS.

At this step:

```bash
cd ~/unitree_sdk2_python
export CYCLONEDDS_HOME="~/cyclonedds/install"
pip3 install -e .
```

Please set the path to the absolute path.

```bash
export CYCLONEDDS_HOME="/home/unitree/cyclonedds/install"
```

### Q9: SIOCSIFFLAGS: Operation not possible due to RF-kill issue.

Try:

```bash
sudo rfkill unblock all
```

## Operating System in PC2

### Q1: Will installing other libraries or packages affecting the SDK or base OS?

Installing software won't affecting the SDK. But please careful about modifying libraries relate to SDK: CycloneDDS, ROS, ROS2.

If you have the method to upgrade the Jetpack, you can do it. Non in the Jetpack affact the SDK.

***// DO NOT USE [SUDO APT UPGRADE] // DO NOT USE [SUDO APT UPGRADE] // DO NOT USE [SUDO APT UPGRADE] //***

↑This cmd will brick the system. If you have done this, flash the NVME. You can infer the document [here](https://support.unitree.com/home/en/G1_developer/FAQ), or the Q2 below.

### Q2: Is there an official image or procedure to restore the G1 system if something breaks?

Yes. You can refer to the document [here](https://support.unitree.com/home/en/G1_developer/FAQ). And you need to install the additional Wi-Fi driver [here](https://github.com/morrownr/rtl8852bu-20240418)(RTL8852BU).
Try not damage it, you'll need NVME reader and must dissemble the robot and take the hard disk out.

### Q3: Are there any partitions or services that we should avoid modifying?

Do not modify the path below:

* /unitree/
* /lib/(Not edit existing files)
* ~/cyclonedds/
* ~/cyclonedds_ws/

- ~/nomachine.sh (Don’t delete this)

You can edit

- ~/unitree_SDK2 (You can upgrade it)

### Q4: Can we use Docker or containers on the G1 without affecting locomotion or sensor latency?

Yes. There’s docker installed but no container running inside of it, and no relative Unitree component.

## Audio, Speaker and Camera

### Q1: Can we play `.wav` or `.mp3` files directly using `AudioClient` or any other SDK method?

Yes. Use `PlayStream` . You can refer to the example `g1_audio_client_example.cpp` .

### Q2: Is it possible to access the G1's microphone to record or perform voice recognition?

Yes. Refer to the `thread_mic` function in `g1_audio_client_example.cpp` to record. Subscribe `AUDIO_SUBSCRIBE_TOPIC` for voice recognition.

### Q3: Is text-to-speech support English?

Yes. If the robot is talking something hard to recognize in unknown language when talking English, please contact technical support to upgrade the Chat GO, Vui Service and Vui Module.

### Q4: How can I access the Realsense depth camera?

EDU Version: The depth camera is pre-installed on PC1 by default. To use it, you need to remove the four screws near the Mid360 and connect it manually.

EDU+ Version: Comes with a dedicated external cable. Simply connect it to PC2.

### Q5: Can I upgrade the OS to 22.02?

Not recommended.

## Model Training And Deployment

### Q1: What is the official workflow to train locomotion models (e.g., PPO) and deploy them on the G1?

We recommend Isaac Gym. You can refer to the document [here](https://support.unitree.com/home/en/G1_developer/rl_control_routine).

### Q2: Are there any pretrained models we can run directly and what formats are the models?

Pretrained model for G1, H1 and H1-2 is [here](https://github.com/unitreerobotics/unitree_rl_gym/tree/main/deploy/pre_train). They are in pytorch format(.pt).

### Q3: Can we run inference directly on the G1 with custom models?

Use sim2real to deploy. Please be very careful and make sure the motion won't hurt anyone and anything by accident.

### Q4: When I deployed the model on my computer, everything worked fine. But after deploying it to PC2, serious issues emerged.

When running on PC2, the IMU reading frequency is significantly lower than on your computer. This is caused by multiple factors including Python's Global Interpreter Lock (GIL). You could try running it within a class or using multiple threads. Alternatively, you may adjust the virtual IMU reading rate during training to help the model adapt to such scenarios.

### Q5: What's the current progress of Unitree's unified large model? Can it accomplish tasks through video training now?

I don't have any updates at the moment and am unaware of the internal developments. However, for video-based model training, you might want to check out the [VideoMimic](https://www.videomimic.net/) project.

## AI, Agents And Containers

### Q1: Can we develop our LLM service inside G1 with container?

Yes. Containers won't affect the DDS and relative Unitree component. If you want to deploy models offline, recommend you use quantized model and check the system requirements.

### Q2: How does the internal GPT service works?

It works when the connection mode is Wi-Fi mode, sending API Calls to cloud GPT service.

### Q3: Can we develop the internal GPT service?

Not support for developing, but you can use ASR service for voice recognizing and use your own LLM services.

## Hardware

### Q1: My Dex3-1 dexterous hand's fingers collide during automatic calibration on startup.

There's a firmware issue. Contact technical support to reflash or replace the unit. Remember to include a video. If your dexterous hand has a serial number printed on the palm, provide it to support.

### Q2: I accidentally damaged the Mid-360 on the head unit. Can I buy a replacement directly from Livox and install it myself?

Not recommended. The standalone Mid-360 units sold by Livox have an encrypted interface that's incompatible with Unitree's SDK.

### Q3: Is that possible to provide a wired power supply for the robot.

Very dangerous try, which is easy to damage the whole robot. Ask technical support for that.

## Resources

### Q1: I can't access to the OneDrive links provided from Unitree.

Microsoft sometimes bans the resources. Create a tickect. The technical support team will send you.
